There is a tradition that the Feast of Saint Valentine was established by Pope Gelasius I in AD 496 to be celebrated on
February 14 in honour of Saint Valentine of Rome, who died on that date in AD 269.
[9][10] The feast is found in the Gelasian Sacramentary (which was compiled after Gelasius), meaning that is has been
observed since at least the eighth century.[11] The day became associated with romantic love in the 14th and 15th centuries
when notions of courtly love flourished, apparently by association with the "lovebirds" of early spring.
In 18th-century England, it grew into an occasion in which couples expressed their love for each other by presenting flowers,
offering confectionery, and sending greeting cards (known as "valentines").
Valentine's Day symbols that are used today include the heart-shaped outline, doves, and the figure of the winged Cupid.
Since the 19th century, handwritten valentines have given way to mass-produced greeting cards.
[12] In Italy, Saint Valentine's Keys are given to lovers "as a romantic symbol and an invitation to unlock the giver's heart",
as well as to children to ward off epilepsy (called Saint Valentine's Malady).

Summary
[11] The day became associated with romantic love in the 14th and 15th centuries when notions of courtly love flourished, apparently by association with the "lovebirds" of early spring.

Valentine's Day symbols that are used today include the heart-shaped outline, doves, and the figure of the winged Cupid.

In 18th-century England, it grew into an occasion in which couples expressed their love for each other by presenting flowers, offering confectionery, and sending greeting cards (known as "valentines").

[12] In Italy, Saint Valentine's Keys are given to lovers "as a romantic symbol and an invitation to unlock the giver's heart", as well as to children to ward off epilepsy (called Saint Valentine's Malady) [9][10] The feast is found in the Gelasian Sacramentary (which was compiled after Gelasius), meaning that is has been observed since at least the eighth century.

There is a tradition that the Feast of Saint Valentine was established by Pope Gelasius I in AD 496 to be celebrated on February 14 in honour of Saint Valentine of Rome, who died on that date in AD 269.

Since the 19th century, handwritten valentines have given way to mass-produced greeting cards.
The length of summary is  191
